.Dd 21 March 2015
.Dt EUCA2OOLS.INI
.Os euca2ools 3.2
.Sh NAME
.Nm euca2ools.ini
.Nd configuration for euca2ools
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file is used to configure the euca2ools suite of command
line tools.  It stores the locations of the services for
the commands to contact, the security credentials to use
to authenticate to them, and other configuration options
as well.
.Sh FILE FORMAT
.Nm
is broken into a number of sections.  Sections are
denoted by section headers, which consist of section
names surrounded by square braces.  Within each section,
an option is set by listing its name, an
.Dq =
sign, and its value.  For example, the following enables
debugging for all commands by setting the
.Dq debug
option in the
.Dq global
section to
.Dq true :
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
[global]
debug = true
.Ed
.Pp
Some sections have user-defined names.  Such a section's
name is defined by a second word in its header.  Named
sections provide a means of choosing different
configuration using the command line.  For example, the
following defines two regions with different URLs for
their EC2 services that one can select using the
.Fl -region
command line option:
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
[region us-east-1]
ec2-url = https://ec2.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/

[region eu-west-1]
ec2-url = https://ec2.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/
.Ed
.Pp
Named sections can contain
.Dq *
wildcards, which makes them act as fallbacks when options
are not available in sections with more specific names
that contain fewer wildcards.  Sections with more specific
names take precedence over those with less specific names.
.Dq *
sections function as defaults when the value for an option
cannot be found anywhere else.
.Pp
Named sections can also be organized into groups by
choosing names for groups and prepending section names
with them, separated by
.Dq \&:
characters.  When combined with wildcards, this allows
one to specify defaults for several sections at once
and then override them as needed as in the following
example:
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
[region aws:*]
certificate = /usr/share/euca2ools/certs/cert-ec2.pem
verify-ssl = true

[region aws:us-gov-west-1]
certificate = /usr/share/euca2ools/certs/cert-ec2-gov.pem
.Ed
.Pp
Finally, options in named sections may refer to other
sections by using the
.Em use
keyword followed by the section name to refer to.
This differs from simply duplicating the option from the
other section in that commands that are sensitive to the
name of the section the option came from, such as those
that use AWS signature version 4, will be able to determine
which section an option originates from.
.Sh REGION SELECTION
The
.Fl -region
option provided by most euca2ools commands allows one to
control the
.Sx user section
and the
.Sx region section
those commands use to find configuration data by supplying
it with a user name, a region name, or both in one of the
following formats:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.Fl -region Ar REGION
.It
.Fl -region Ar USER@
.It
.Fl -region Ar USER@REGION
.El
.Pp
The
.Ev AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
option works the same way, but with lower priority.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Ss Global section
The global section contains settings that affect all
commands.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va debug
When set to
.Cm true ,
enable debugging for all commands.  When set to
.Cm color ,
enable debugging for all commands and additionally colorize
debug output based on severity level.
.It Va default-region
The name of the region to use when no region is otherwise
specified.
.It Va max-retries
The maximum number of times commands should retry their
requests to the server before giving up.  The default is 2.
.It Va timeout
The amount of time, in seconds, to wait for the server to
respond to requests before giving up.  The default is 30.
.El
.Ss User section
A user section contains information that is specific to
an identity in the cloud, usually an IAM user.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va account-id
The account's 12-digit ID number.
.It Va key-id
The user's access key ID to use for authentication.
Access key IDs come paired with secret keys; the ID
specified with this option must correspond to the secret
key specified with the
.Va secret-key
option.
.It Va secret-key
The user's secret key to use for authentication.
Secret keys come paired with access key IDs; the secret
key specified with this option must correspond to the
access key ID specified with the
.Va key-id
option.
.It Va certificate
The file name containing the user's signing certificate.
This is used only by commands that bundle images:
.Xr euca-bundle-and-upload-image 1 ,
.Xr euca-bundle-image 1 ,
.Xr euca-bundle-vol 1 ,
.Xr euca-install-image 1 ,
and
.Xr euimage-install-pack 1 .
.It Va private-key
The file name containing the private key for the user's
signing certificate.  This is used only by commands that
bundle and unbundle images:
.Xr euca-bundle-and-upload-image 1 ,
.Xr euca-bundle-image 1 ,
.Xr euca-bundle-vol 1 ,
.Xr euca-download-and-unbundle 1 ,
.Xr euca-install-image 1 ,
.Xr euca-unbundle 1 ,
and
.Xr euimage-install-pack 1 .
.El
.Ss Region section
A region section contains information that is specific to
a cloud region, such as a Eucalyptus installation or an
Amazon Web Services region.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va SERVICE-url
The URL to use to contact the service with the name
.Va SERVICE .
Valid service names include:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It autoscaling
The instance auto-scaling service.
.It cloudformation
The CloudFormation templating service.
.It ec2
The compute service.
.It elasticloadbalancing
The load balancing service.
.It iam
The identity and access management service.
.It monitoring
The instance monitoring service.
.It s3
The object storage service.
.It swf
The workflow service.
.El
.It Va user
The
.Sx user section
to use for this region when no other user is otherwise
specified.
.It Va certificate
The file name containing the cloud's image-bundling
certificate.  This is used only by commands that bundle
images:
.Xr euca-bundle-and-upload-image 1 ,
.Xr euca-bundle-image 1 ,
.Xr euca-bundle-vol 1 ,
.Xr euca-install-image 1 ,
and
.Xr euimage-install-pack 1 .
.It Va s3-location-constraint
The location constraint needed to create buckets in the
region's object storage service.
.It Va verify-ssl
Whether or not to verify the server's SSL certificates.
The default is false.
.It Va vpn-stylesheet
The location of the XSLT stylesheet for
.Xr euca-create-vpn-connection 1
or
.Xr euca-describe-vpn-connections 1
to use to reformat VPN connection information.  If the
location is an HTTP or HTTPS URL it will be downloaded
as needed.  If it contains
.Dq {format}
that will be replaced with the desired format.
.Sh FILES
.Nm
configuration data are read from files in alphabetical
order in the following locations:
.Pp
.Bl -enum -compact
.It
.Pa /etc/euca2ools/euca2ools.ini
.It
.Pa /etc/euca2ools/conf.d/*.ini
.It
.Pa ~/.euca/*.ini
.El
.Pp
In cases where the same option is defined in more than
one file, the file that appears last in that list will
take precedence.
.Sh CAVEATS
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in euca2ools 3.0.
