.Dd December 8, 2016
.Dt EUWATCH-PUT-DATA 1
.Os Euca2ools 3.4
.Sh NAME
.Nm euwatch-put-data
.Nd add data points to a CloudWatch metric
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl n
.Ar NAMESPACE
.Op Fl v Ar FLOAT
.Ar ...
.Nm
.Fl n
.Ar NAMESPACE
.Op Fl s Ar KEY1=VALUE1,KEY2-VALUE2,...
.Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility adds data to a CloudWatch metric.
A metric datum consists of a metric name, any of several
attributes, and either a simple, numeric value
.Pq Fl v
or a set of statistical values
.Pq Fl s .
.Pp
All of the data in a given invocation of
.Nm
must belong to one namespace, whose name is specified with
.Fl n .
.Pp
Metric data consist of one or more of the attributes below.
These attributes may be specified using dedicated options
that apply to all data in a given invocation of
.Nm ,
or for individual data as part of an input to
.Fl s .
A metric name is required for all metric data.
.Bl -column MetricName Option Aliases
.It Sy Name     Ta Sy Option Ta Sy Aliases
.It MetricName  Ta Fl m      Ta metric
.It Dimensions  Ta Fl d      Ta dim
.It Timestamp   Ta Fl t      Ta ts
.It Unit        Ta Fl u      Ta unit
.El
.Pp
Simple metric data have one additional attribute for their
values.
.Bl -column MetricName Option Aliases
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Option Ta Sy Aliases
.It Value   Ta Fl v      Ta val
.El
.Pp
Statistical metric data have four additional attributes.
These attributes cannot be specified using separate command
line options.
.Bl -column SampleCount Aliases
.It Sy Name     Ta Sy Aliases
.It Maximum     Ta max
.It Minimum     Ta min
.It SampleCount Ta count
.It Sum         Ta sum
.El
.Ss Optional arguments:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl n Ar NAMESPACE, Fl -namespace Ar NAMESPACE
The namespace for all the data points in the current
invocation of
.Nm .
This option is required.
.It Fl v Ar FLOAT, Fl -value Ar FLOAT
Each use of the
.Fl v
option specifies the value of a new simple metric datum.
To specify other attributes for simple data points specifed
using this option, use the corresponding options for those
attributes from the tables above.
In particular,
.Fl m
is required when
.Fl v
is used.
.It Fl s Ar KEY=VALUE,..., Fl -metric-datum Ar KEY=VALUE,...
The
.Fl s
option allows for full control of the attributes of each
metric datum.
This mode of entry is required for specifying statistical
data points.
To specify a datum using this option, join each attribute's
name or alias from the tables above with its value using
the
.Dq \&=
character, and join each of those pairs with
.Dq \&,
characters.
If a value contains a
.Dq \&,
character, surround the entire attribute with
double-quotes, as in the following example.

.Dl Qq Dimensions=ImageId=ami-98765432,InstanceId:i-12345678

Note that most shell environments require double-quotes to
be escaped.
.Pp
.Dq Dimensions
attributes are specified as a comma-separated list of
dimension names and values that are themselves separated
by
.Dq \&:
characters.
.Pp
Attributes specified via
.Fl s
take precedence over those specified with attribute-specific
options, such as
.Fl d .
.Pp
See the
.Sx EXAMPLES
section for some illustrative examples.
.It Fl m Ar METRIC, Fl -metric-name Ar METRIC
The name of the metric to add data to.
This is required unless all metric data specify metric names
themselves.
.It Fl d Ar KEY=VALUE,..., Fl -dimensions Ar KEY=VALUE,...
A list of dimensions to associate with the new metric data.
.It Fl t Ar YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ, Fl -timestamp Ar YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ
A timestamp for the new metric data, in a format specified
by ISO 8601.
Note that the CloudWatch service does not accept data with
timestamps more than two weeks in the past.
.It Fl u Ar UNIT, Fl -unit Ar UNIT
The unit, such as
.Dq Bytes ,
in which to report the new metric data.
Examples of valid units include the following:

.Bl -inset -offset indent -compact
.It Seconds
.It Microseconds
.It Milliseconds
.It Bytes
.It Kilobytes
.It Megabytes
.It Gigabytes
.It Terabytes
.It Bits
.It Kilobits
.It Megabits
.It Gigabits
.It Terabits
.It Percent
.It Count
.It Bytes/Second
.It Kilobytes/Second
.It Megabytes/Second
.It Gigabytes/Second
.It Terabytes/Second
.It Bits/Second
.It Kilobits/Second
.It Megabits/Second
.It Gigabits/Second
.It Terabits/Second
.It Count/Second
.It None
.El
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Show a help message and exit without doing anything.
.It Fl U Ar URL , Fl -url Ar URL
The URL of the service to contact.
.It Fl I Ar KEY_ID , Fl -access-key-id Ar KEY_ID
The access key ID to use to authenticate requests.
.It Fl S Ar KEY . Fl -secret-key Ar KEY
The secret key to use to authenticate requests.
.It Fl -security-token Ar TOKEN
The STS security token to use to authenticate requests.
.It Fl -region Ar USER@REGION
The user and/or region name to use when looking up
configuration file data.
.It Fl -debug
Show debugging output when running.
.It Fl -debugger
Launch an interactive epdb or pdb debugger after
encountering
an error.
.It Fl -version
Show the program's version and exit.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Report that instance i-12345678 is using 747 megabytes of
memory using metric
.Dq MemoryUtilization
in namespace
.Dq MyNamespace .

.Dl Nm Fl n Ar MyNamespace Fl m Ar MemoryUtilization Fl u Ar Megabytes Fl d Ar InstanceId=i-12345678 Fl v Ar 747
.Pp
Same as above, but using the
.Fl s
option.

.Dl Nm Fl n Ar MyNamespace Fl m Ar MemoryUtilization Fl u Ar Megabytes Fl d Ar InstanceId=i-12345678 Fl s Ar Value=747
.Pp
Same as above, but specifying as much as possible using the
.Fl s
option.

.Dl Nm Fl n Ar MyNamespace Fl s Ar MetricName=MemoryUtilization,Unit=Megabytes,Dimensions=InstanceId:i-12345678,Value=747
.Pp
Report statistics for 50 samples from instance i-12345678
that have a minimum value of 20, a maximum value of 80, and
a sum of 2500 using metric
.Dq QueriesPerSecond ,
in namespace
.Dq MyNamespace .

.Dl Nm Fl n Ar MyNamespace Fl m Ar QueriesPerSecond Fl u Ar Count/Second Fl d Ar InstanceId=i-12345678 Fl s Ar Minimum=20,Maximum=80,Sum=2500,SampleCount=50
.Pp
Same as above, but using aliases for attribute names.

.Dl Nm Fl n Ar MyNamespace Fl m Ar QueriesPerSecond Fl u Ar Count/Second Fl d Ar InstanceId=i-12345678 Fl s Ar min=20,max=80,sum=2500,count=50
.Pp
Report both of the metric data above at once.
The second datum uses
.Fl s
to override the metric name and unit attributes specified by
.Fl m
and
.Fl u ,
but not the dimension specified by
.Fl d .

.Dl Nm Fl n Ar MyNamespace Fl m Ar MemoryUtilization Fl u Ar Megabytes Fl d Ar InstanceId=i-12345678 Fl v Ar 747 Fl s Ar metric=QueriesPerSecond,unit=Count/Second,min=20,max=80,sum=2500,count=50
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
The access key ID to use when authenticating web
service requests.  This takes precedence over
.Fl -region
and
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
but not
.Fl I .
.It Ev AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
The secret key to use when authenticating web
service requests.  This takes precedence over
.Fl -region
and
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
but not
.Fl S .
.It Ev AWS_CLOUDWATCH_URL
The URL of the service to contact.  This takes precedence
over
.Fl -region
and
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
but not
.Fl U .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
.Xr euca2ools 7
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command first appeared in euca2ools 3.0.
.Pp
The ability to report multiple metric data in a single
request and the generic
.Fl s
syntax that allows one to specify all attributes of a metric
datum first appeared in euca2ools 3.4.
.Sh NOTES
.Nm
requires access keys and knowledge of where to locate
the web services it needs to contact.  It can obtain
these from several locations.  See
.Xr euca2ools 7
for more information.
